Steph Wright: I always like to catch the initial reactions of this on the recording. Hence why, the creepy recording lady is here straight away rather than when I have some slides or something else to show you.
Steph Wright: So Hello!
Steph Wright: We're just gonna wait for everybody to come in and turn their cameras on, because I need to assess a few things. I'm gonna be needing to see you
Steph Wright: in order to do that.
Steph Wright: So Facebook
Steph Wright: bear there, or some of the expressions be interesting to see how the expressions translate into what we're about to do. So on a scale of one to 10
Steph Wright: where one is. Steph's my friend. Right? I'm fine with her.
Steph Wright: 10 is Steph's gone. Die
Steph Wright: right? Where do we sit? Currently be honest.
Steph Wright: go on. You'll be amazed at the range of numbers I've had in the past right? All those people laughing right. If you want to throw eights, nines and tens in there, go through it. I've asked for your honesty. It's what I'm looking for.
Steph Wright: God damn it, it's so much more fun when you all hate me. After that okay. different question. Scale of one to 10. How frustrated are you
Steph Wright: after that fire drill?
Steph Wright: Right? 10 is, I am epictet frustrated. I want to throw my laptop out the window. One is
Steph Wright: okay.
Steph Wright: And this is just a hands up.
Steph Wright: not hands up.
Steph Wright: Type job. Oh, don't worry about being mean with me old enough and ugly enough. I can take it
Steph Wright: is who felt panicked when they read that they'd broken Gdpr.
Steph Wright: Out of curiosity.
Steph Wright: Okay. if this was in real life.
Steph Wright: all of you should have your hands up like right up in the air. Hands up! This would be a moment.
Steph Wright: 4 panic. This has happened.
Steph Wright: not in the exact form that I have shown you here.
Steph Wright: But let's just say that when pulling together some personal information regarding employees I might have published
Steph Wright: somewhere. I shouldn't.
Steph Wright: and bosses were not happy.
Steph Wright: Alex, you may mock me at your will.
Alex Kononov: No mockery in my plans.
Alex Kononov: I wanted to ask actually, are you sure that it is not within the legitimate interest clause, because those are the business partners
Alex Kononov: and sending them gifts is a part of normal interactions between business partners
Alex Kononov: within European business culture.
Steph Wright: And if we were talking B to B. So business to business, then potentially, you would be right. This could come under legitimate interest.
Steph Wright: By the way, all this stuff we're talking about, I'm going to get you to go and research afterwards everyone.
Steph Wright: So don't panic. You don't have to pull it a hundred percent.
Steph Wright: These were personal addresses
Steph Wright: in order for legitimate interest to apply
Steph Wright: the
Steph Wright: the game to the company has to be deemed to outweigh the harm
Steph Wright: to the individual.
Steph Wright: Put on a public, because that's what the power bi dashboard is. It's public. Anybody can see that
Steph Wright: to put their part.
Steph Wright: Personal address is boxing.
Steph Wright: so you would have to weigh up is the harm of potentially someone's stalker finding out where they now live.
Steph Wright: because they've been following everything
Steph Wright: that has anything to do with their say. Ex partners.
Steph Wright: Life right? Is that harm
Steph Wright: outweighed
Steph Wright: by sending a business gift that may or may not increase sales.
Steph Wright: I would argue that it isn't.
Steph Wright: and if you do not know whether it is a business address
Steph Wright: or a personal address.
Steph Wright: the weight of that app is on you to find out.
Steph Wright: All that would have taken was a quick check, and I could have confirmed.
Steph Wright: It's asking. The question
Steph Wright: is, what's going to allow you to avoid
Steph Wright: getting into hot water
Steph Wright: in a month.
Elymma Mensah: I wanted to ask, so would this be a situation where you would like protect the the document with a password? Or would it still be GP. Dl. Violation to pass them like the details between other workers like is the PA, and like the marketing person having that information still a breach? Or is it just if people outside of the business
Elymma Mensah: have? Oh, thank you. But yeah, what's the
Elymma Mensah: how? How does?
Steph Wright: So I I'm gonna answer the question for everyone to consider.
Steph Wright: Imagine you work in a very big
Steph Wright: company, and you've had a running
Steph Wright: with someone there.
Steph Wright: and they happened to be one of the people on the password protected
Steph Wright: list to see that dashboard, because no one knows that there is bad blood between you and that person.
Steph Wright: and they then find out your home address
Steph Wright: by Nod. Yes, I'd be fine with that, and shake. No, I wouldn't show me how you feel.
Steph Wright: and that that's what Gdpr is actually about, right data protection laws, aren't there to make life difficult for data analysts?
Steph Wright: I know it's going to feel like it at times.
Steph Wright: but we are essentially superheroes
Steph Wright: protecting the personal information that we hold about our customers, about our clients.
Steph Wright: and it's up to us to make sure that we have. And this this would have been the difference between a breach
Steph Wright: and not a breach did we have their permission.
Steph Wright: If, when you collect data on people, you tell them that it will be displayed publicly like you have it as a disclaimer on a form.
Steph Wright: Then Gdpr, actually, in large part doesn't apply
Steph Wright: because you've set as long as you use it for the what you've said you're gonna use it for.
Steph Wright: It falls under
Steph Wright: one of the pillars, saying, This is okay. but if you use it even for the most positively intended thing.
Steph Wright: I don't know what phrase I was going for there. But I really hope that you guys have got some idea where I was headed like, in a good way, we're trying to be nice people.
Steph Wright: It doesn't actually change the fact
Steph Wright: that we could. And yes, this is an extreme. I know it is.
Steph Wright: but they, for full disclosure, had a stalker. and my friend works for a domestic violence. Charity
Steph Wright: so knows about having to keep people safe and their details, and like the huge effect it could have.
Steph Wright: It's we are trying to protect those situations. Yes, Gdpr covers a whole load of things to stop us being exploited.
Steph Wright: But it's kind of like if we have some annoying rules that we have to work within
Steph Wright: in order to make sure that we don't put someone in harm's way. I think that pretty much describes society.
Elymma Mensah: B.
Elymma Mensah: Also how much of the information cause I know about you. Dpr, but like, I don't know about like, if if we're working in a certain like like. Say, this happened in real life? Would we know how much of the is there like a set
Steph Wright: amount of data that's allowed to be shed or set that crosses the line like, is it just the address crossing the line? Or it's the line? Oh, so it's known as personally identifiable information. So why, so their name.
Steph Wright: So you'd be amazed. What comes on it? Name, address, date of birth.
Steph Wright: All the things that can be used to clone your identity
Steph Wright: are pretty much covered. My dad had his identity stolen. He gets stopped every time he goes through passport control.
Steph Wright: Well, I burn things with your addresses on.
Steph Wright: Everyone is the big advice that I learned from this happening to my dad like way back in the early Nauties.
Steph Wright: right? So you've been dealing with this for 20 odd years.
Steph Wright: There is another Malcolm France, out there somewhere.
Steph Wright: It was apparently him not who I would choose to be.
Steph Wright: but it's if you go and search for Pi. It will give you a list of those controlled bits. Gdpr doesn't just cover
Steph Wright: the the sharing of information publicly.
Steph Wright: It also covers what we use the data for in the back end.
Steph Wright: and we will come onto the the really easy way that we will avoid getting in trouble with this sort of thing
Steph Wright: in the future as well as if anybody knows the the sanctions.
Steph Wright: Shall Lewis say.
Steph Wright: for reaching Gdpr. Get ready to share with us?
Steph Wright: Shiri? I'm sorry to have kept you waiting. It was a very long point I was making.
Shiri: That's okay. I was wondering.
Shiri: I can't think of how logistically to do it right now. But
Shiri: where, in one of the tables there was a reseller. Id
Shiri: had we use that as opposed to having their name and their address.
Shiri: and just write it and been like sorry can't give you the address, but feel free to. Oh, no, wait, cause
Shiri: I've just answered my own question.
Shiri: I'm really glad. That's where that's where it gets
Steph Wright: harder to ascertain
Steph Wright: this. A problem because you're going the 2 peak like 2 pieces of information separately.
Steph Wright: That is not really helping. You find the person put them together, and suddenly you are zeroing in on the person you want. Add another thing
Steph Wright: to it, like a date of birth. you found someone. And so it's we
Steph Wright: attempt like our level best. We do not share anything like that in public spaces.
Steph Wright: to people groups for things that people haven't specifically said.
Steph Wright: that's okay.
Steph Wright: As soon as you see names, addresses day of births, I need the Gdpr. Claxon
Steph Wright: to start going off in your brain
Steph Wright: and for you to question. Oh, so in the chat we have one thing. So a potential fine for a Gdpr breach 20 million.
Steph Wright: Alex
Steph Wright: 20 million up to 20 million or up to 4 yearly. And over whichever is higher.
Alex Kononov: So yeah.
Steph Wright: that's the scary part is when you start getting into the percentages of turnover. Now, your company
Steph Wright: will be deemed responsible
Steph Wright: for the breach, because they didn't have a way
Steph Wright: to stop it.
Steph Wright: but by thumbs up, thumbs down. Are you personally liable for any sanction?
Steph Wright: 2 thumbs up, and I'm going to hand over to my colleague Finn. He's one of our new coaches. By the way, please wave Hello! Make him feel welcome.
Steph Wright: He's going to tell you a little story.
Finn: hey? Guys, nice to meet you all. That's my first day yesterday. So I'm very excited to be joining you all. I'll be helping a lot with the apply part of the course as well. but I've got one example of Gdpr, so I've been teaching for the last couple of years, and one of my students a year ago is working for
Finn: a really really large multi corporate company like billions and billions of dollars in revenue, and they publish the dashboard with personal, identifiable information.
Finn: And it all, and they're only like 20 years old, brand new. They're about to get their qualification, and they very nearly lost their job because of it.
Finn: Even though their manager and that team should have probably known about it, and should have been checking up on that work those his responsibility when he published his dashboard with personal identifying information, and he very, very nearly lost his job. You're suspended for 2 weeks without pay. This is the kind these are. Why, it's really important. You're gonna ask those questions to your managers, to your leaders to make sure that you're not accidentally doing something, cause your managers and leaders will sometimes ask question things for you to do which
Finn: I'm not possible without breaking. Gdpr, and that's when you got to go back and say, Hey, is this actually okay? Do I need to think about this in any.
Finn: every detail, and you'll also be doing Gdpr, Gdpr courses when you join your new wells as well. So at that point the responsibility very much lies on.
Steph Wright: Make sure you actually pay attention
Steph Wright: to those courses that they send you. I know. I know they're boring. It's why I don't set units on. Gdpr. It's why there's no big reading or a taught session. It's not the most joyful thing
Steph Wright: in our careers, but it does
Steph Wright: give you the the rules and restrictions for keeping yourself safe
Steph Wright: working with people.
Steph Wright: And that's the thing that Finn has put in the chat. That is what keeps you safe.
Steph Wright: It is cool, but it has a little acronym.
Steph Wright: Steph's favourite acronym. It's Cy A. I don't know if I've told it you before, but if I haven't any guesses
Elymma Mensah: oh, come on, keep that, you say, keep! Oh, cover your ass, cover your ass.
Elymma Mensah: always cover your ass, because
Steph Wright: the people above you will be covering their ass. The people above them will be covering their us. They will not be covering yours
Steph Wright: for the most part
Steph Wright: as as much as I would like to tell you. Every manager you get, every leader you get will genuinely care about you
Steph Wright: as a human being
Steph Wright: right statistically.
Steph Wright: that can't always be the case. We're always going to have at least an outlier.
Steph Wright: So it's making sure that you cover yourself. And so, if you had asked, do I have permission
Steph Wright: to publish this information? The weight of responsibility lies from the person that says yes.
Steph Wright: because the big people who I can't remember what they're called, but who enforce
Steph Wright: Gdpr and whack you with the big finds will go through the audit trail.
Steph Wright: We'll be like this person was new. They asked for clarification. You as their manager, the data owner, whoever it is.
Steph Wright: said
Steph Wright: that this data was fine to be used.
Steph Wright: that mercenary, but do everything through email.
Steph Wright: everything to do with a request, even if the request comes via slack.
Steph Wright: confirm the requirements. What needs to be done
Steph Wright: and clarify if
Steph Wright: pi is involved?
Steph Wright: Has permission been given for A to be used
Steph Wright: for what they've asked you to do?
Steph Wright: And B. If they've asked for it to be published. Do you have express permission for that
Steph Wright: to do so? And then, Alex, if that's when legitimate interest would come in
Steph Wright: right. That's when the person above, you will tell you that.
Steph Wright: and then again, that weight is on them. To have made it clear that the company
Steph Wright: has assessed the risk, reward
Steph Wright: benefit as well as deemed it to be a legitimate thing to do.
Steph Wright: So it's going in as an entry level analyst. You don't get paid enough
Steph Wright: to take the risk. You don't.
Steph Wright: That's why you get paid more and more money as you go up in a business, even though it looks like you have less actual work to do.
Steph Wright: It's because the decisions you make are so big
Steph Wright: that the ramifications are huge. So if you say it's fine, and it's not
Steph Wright: potentially off to jail.
Steph Wright: So I'm not saying, Give C. 3 execs and all that an easy ride.
Steph Wright: Right? Yes, it's a hard job, and there are things they have to do. But also they get to have a lot of fun.
Steph Wright: But it's just make sure that you're not putting yourself in a position where you
Steph Wright: are going to get in trouble, but also
Steph Wright: feel the guilt
Steph Wright: of potentially causing harm
Steph Wright: from doing this.
Steph Wright: I'm going to tug on the heart strings as well as the mercenary approach. I need this message to land. Ask the questions.
Steph Wright: cover your off.
Steph Wright: and by doing that you will protect the people whose data you're working with. Naturally.
Steph Wright: right? You don't even have to envisage yourself as a superhero. If you're not a big fan of Kate's and Spandex. though I think everybody knows they've got one hidden inside them somewhere, right?
Steph Wright: Have a rainy Sunday draw your superhero. It's quite a fun exercise, even if you're any good at stick people
Steph Wright: right? Those are the things that step.
Steph Wright: Why am I talking in the third person? I must really be out of it today. I'm sorry. This is what lack of sleep does to me.
Steph Wright: Those are the things that I really needed to convey
Steph Wright: and to check the fact that I don't have to worry about my safety amongst you all is quite a nice thing. but hit us with questions like anything you want to know. Anything
Steph Wright: like. I can sort of
Steph Wright: take you through some of the technical things. If
Steph Wright: there are no further questions on the data protectionee site of staffs.
Steph Wright: because I've sent you my queries. You've got my dashboard die Belt.
Steph Wright: You can take your time now to rebuild these blend.
blens: Okay, it relates to what we're talking about, like, what about sharing information verbally. not like publishing it, whatever, but like may, outside of work, like with maybe colleagues or even friends.
blens: So how does that balance?
Steph Wright: I would say the chances of that being policed are very slim.
Steph Wright: If we're be, if we're talking specifically about Gdpr and the the chance for sanctions.
Steph Wright: But I always
Steph Wright: do they? How would I feel
Steph Wright: if I found out someone else had been sharing this piece of information about me?
Steph Wright: If I wouldn't be very happy about it.
Steph Wright: I wouldn't share it. It's a fairly good litmus test, but
Steph Wright: that is only when we're talking about everybody involved
Steph Wright: being peers.
Steph Wright: The minute hierarchy stums starts to come into this, especially if you, as the speaker.
Steph Wright: are in a managerial or a leader position.
Steph Wright: then
Steph Wright: then it gets trickier. because your word carries more weight.
Steph Wright: and therefore anything that is allied to that information that you give out it can either positively or negatively affect
Steph Wright: certain things. And so it's best
Steph Wright: that we don't share people's birthdays. This is a really common one that you get asked is, Oh, when is such and such as birthday? We want to send them a cart.
Steph Wright: or we want to organise a thing. Easiest thing. Go to the person
Steph Wright: dude. We'd like to see something for your birthday. Are you happy with me to share that information.
Steph Wright: and I'll be honest with you. My answer question would be, no. I really don't like
Steph Wright: that sort of thing. It makes me feel very on the spot. Yes, I'm aware I'm quite a flamboyant person, but I've got some quirks. What can I say?
Steph Wright: And I've worked with other people as well, who have gone off sick.
Steph Wright: and the company has wanted to send stuff. and we've had access to the address.
Steph Wright: and I've had to get them to stop
Steph Wright: whilst I, Whatsapp, the person and go, are you okay with us doing this
Steph Wright: again? A. I want to make sure that they genuinely are.
Steph Wright: But, B, if I don't have that permission and that address gets used.
Steph Wright: that would be a technical breach.
Steph Wright: And so
Steph Wright: thinking about those things when you're making some of those
Steph Wright: kind of office culture
Steph Wright: requests.
Steph Wright: Don't be surprised if people say no.
Steph Wright: it's not them being difficult.
Steph Wright: It's that Gdpr. Will.
Steph Wright: if they do
Steph Wright: cheer. You look very concerned by what I was just saying.
Shiri: No, I'm trying to think through my own question.
Shiri:  basically, I'm sorry if this is gonna come out as before. I can't. I haven't figured it out as of such. So as May gave us the tables right. They have access to tables as well
Shiri: by that logic.
Shiri: Is it just because we've built a dashboard which is public that we've now breached? Gdpr.
Steph Wright: that's what makes it very obvious
Steph Wright: we've breached. Gdpr, if asthma centers that table and we use the data
Steph Wright: even didn't publish it.
Steph Wright: But we didn't have permission for using it for marketing purposes, which is what this is. Really.
Steph Wright: Then, yeah, we're still in trouble.
Steph Wright: So always check before you even start digging into things like the minute you see address
Steph Wright: or name things like that in your column headers.
Steph Wright: ping the email or
Steph Wright: double check, get the verbal confirmation and then get them to confirm in writing. If it needs to be done quickly.
Steph Wright: I think I understood your question. Is that the an answer that helped?
Steph Wright: Okay? Then your question was great. Give them up.
Elymma Mensah: I don't know if you're gonna go through this when you go through your kind of solution. But I wanted to know.
Elymma Mensah: I'll question, do people do stuff like this in like industry with some one ask you to find the top, whatever of whatever
Elymma Mensah: knowing like, cause it it?
Elymma Mensah: Oh, they would.
Elymma Mensah: Yes, top 5 top 10 top 100. We love a top or a box came out in. Not the way I intend
I was like, so would they
Elymma Mensah: when they're asking that with the knowledge of G, sorry I get the the letters mixed up. I'm gonna say, Gdpr, whatever is that's our is alright. Okay, with with their knowledge of that.
Elymma Mensah: would they still ask, make a request like this? Or did you like specifically make it so? It was like a catch us out kind of thing? Or do people actually just request these kind of things? Would you say they would, or are they? Do they have a better? Oh, I did it on purpose.
Steph Wright: I wanted you to feel that small sense of panic of the
Steph Wright: No here. because yet that will stay with you.
Steph Wright: You learn when you're feeling an emotion, positive ones work just as well as negative ones. It's why I go for joy and fun in our sessions.
Steph Wright: But that peeding and feeling in the pit of your stomach, or maybe in your chest.
Steph Wright: That is what's going to make you remember to check this
Steph Wright: when this sort of data comes up enroll. So that's why. Yes, I did it on purpose, because I am an evil hariden of a woman.
Steph Wright: The other side of it is
Steph Wright: we we love seeing the best of performance and the worst of performance, because it gives us an idea of the range that we're dealing with in a data set.
Steph Wright: and it's just a quick way to get a snapshot of what's going on. It's it's a really quick one to do. You often do not have to use
Steph Wright: a window function.
Steph Wright: You only need to use a window function when you're splitting it out by another criteria.
Steph Wright: Otherwise you could just use an order by
Elymma Mensah: and the limit. Yeah.
Steph Wright: Whereas because we wanted to go by region, I was very sneaky, like I was forcing the window function in this
Steph Wright: unless you found the table?
Steph Wright: Oh, yes, I hope everybody
Steph Wright: benefited from Peter's insight where he's like. Yes.
Steph Wright: this is a handy thing to have
Steph Wright: always ask the questions.
Steph Wright: It's
Steph Wright: in terms of people's performance.
Steph Wright: Hr, do this a lot
Steph Wright: like they're drawing up a short list of people for promotions or bonuses.
Steph Wright: If it's salespeople, a really easy metric is, how much money did you bring in?
Steph Wright: Who are the top 5 we've got here? Right, let's pick the top 3 from that, with some additional criteria in.
Steph Wright: and so window functions with a rank or a row number.
Steph Wright: They are your best friend.
Steph Wright: as is an order by and a limit.
Steph Wright: and you'll notice order by a limit.
Steph Wright: Go look at it, go, look it up.
Steph Wright: It is super useful in industry as well as some other points.
Steph Wright: Can't say anymore. But when I stress something, there is always a point Peter.
Peter Shatwell: yeah
Peter Shatwell: so was
Peter Shatwell: this in breach of Gdpr, because they're personal addresses
Peter Shatwell: or is that when actually okay. Cause, I thought, would would this have been okay if they were overall business addresses?
Steph Wright: That's where it would probably
Steph Wright: all under the legitimate interest.
Peter Shatwell: Okay? Because is that what Alex was getting
Peter Shatwell: all right? If you think there's even a chance
Steph Wright: it could come under that pi. Banner.
Steph Wright: I keep wanting to say, PPI,
Steph Wright: very different thing. Always ask the question. No one is going to think you're being difficult.
Steph Wright: They're going to think that you understand. Gdpr.
Peter Shatwell: -
Steph Wright: That's not a bad thing to convey
Steph Wright: to someone who owns your data set or who manages you and considers progression
Steph Wright: so little bit of a sharp moment, certainly the first time.
Peter Shatwell: Okay.
Steph Wright: check.
Jack C: Isn't about Gdpr, it's just about the exercise, so that the second table
Jack C: that you mentioned that could be used. I use that is, that, had that taken away with the heavy lifting of needing to do anything in big query, like all the information was already there.
Jack C: Okay, cool. That's what I did. And then I would do is filter it.
Yeah. And that's
Jack C: that's what I did. And but then I spent the next like 40 min looking at it like.
but surely I have to do something more than this.
Jack C: But yeah, I just wanted to clarify that
Jack C: one of the queries that I put in shows you exactly how to take it from the first table to the ranked table. But those who
Jack C: to have a play around. With that I do recommend going and having a look at the code.
Steph Wright: remember being able to understand code written by someone else. Very useful skill
here.
Steph Wright: This is the other bit of the exercise that's important
Steph Wright: is that by by Peter asking the question, by Jack looking and going, you know what they haven't told me this has been done.
Steph Wright: but I think that's what's going on. It saved 40 min of time
Steph Wright: in something you were given an hour, for. You could have had a nap
Steph Wright: like real world done the thing I needed to go go for a walk.
Steph Wright: This is why we find efficiencies. because it allows us to spend more time
Steph Wright: working on the things that are interesting taking breaks. Should we be a very broken person?
And we kind of need to do that
Steph Wright: it's take the heavy lifting out of your day automate what you can
Steph Wright: use, things that already exist. and pick the simplest
Steph Wright: of all the things you could do. because your stakeholders, like way up the chain.
Steph Wright: will never know whether you used
Steph Wright: a really quick way or a really long, convoluted, sophisticated way.
Steph Wright: nor would. They probably understand the difference.
Steph Wright: And everybody who doesn't do data very much likes data to be a black box that you do your magic in.
Steph Wright: and then you explain it to them in plain English.
Steph Wright: right? That's our job. We are number magicians. And then Thesauruses.
Steph Wright: But just explain things using different words. If you can get that out of your day to day you got it licked.
Jack C: Jack. Is this a follow up to your question? If so, I will come to you now. If not, I'll go to Alex, cause I tried to be fair.
It is kind of a follow up.
Jack C: It was just. I know you shared your how you did it afterwards on slack. Is there any? I was looking through the exercise to see if there was a way to like. See the query of like, how you got the
Jack C: so the rank in see? If, like the Rankin was what I thought it was. Is there like a way to do that? Or is it just the way that the data was shared? I kind of don't get that oversight
Jack C: as in. Where would you go to look if these queries exist. Yeah, to see like what you'd done to calculate it like. Well, so I was doing the exercise cause. I read that you like in a meeting. So I was like.
if
Jack C: is there a way to see that whilst you're kind of doing it inside of afterwards?
Jack C: So it is dependent on the person who wrote the query.
Jack C: saving it in a certain way.  give me a second. We're just hopping into bigquery.
Jack C: Give me a wave when you can see
Jack C: what is actually an error message.
Jack C: Lovely? Thank you.
Steph Wright: So
Steph Wright: in here, underneath your
Steph Wright: project title.
Steph Wright: before you start to get your datasets there will be a saved queries
Steph Wright: Bit. If you open that up
Steph Wright: you'll see anything that has been saved in a format that you can view.
Steph Wright: and that's where my code was the entire time
to.
Steph Wright: You didn't have the name of the query, so it was hard to find. You can when it the way that I share them with you is I just go there and click copy link. But best thing to do. Go to project queries.
take a look.
Steph Wright: and if the person, even if the person is in a meeting, quick, slack message of Don't suppose you've got the query.
Steph Wright: and then, if they can.
Steph Wright: they will get that to you in the way I said, like just clicking
Steph Wright: or resaving it as public. If it wasn't public.
Steph Wright: and then getting out to you.
Steph Wright: Alex, you've been very patient with me. Thank you.
Alex Kononov: No problem
my question is, actually not about this particular exercise, but about the general framework. General approach. If you want
Alex Kononov: the table that's you have created with your query that we didn't see
Alex Kononov: and that was found by Peter did not have any information regarding the period to reach this, the results of this query related
Alex Kononov: so to what extent? So was it
Alex Kononov: wise to use the information in the form of a magic table that came from the magic land of we do not know where and how.
Steph Wright: So
Steph Wright: does anybody remember my joining the Doc session? And I told you that a really easy way to filter was to do an in a join
Steph Wright: to another table.
Steph Wright: That's where the table fiscal quarters came in
Steph Wright: when creating the base table. I set it
Steph Wright: to when I want it there.
Steph Wright: So I actually did the filter on the date at this point.
Alex Kononov: I know a different way.
Alex Kononov: Sorry I mean the every seller rank table does not contain any information regarding the date, so it it could be quarter 2 of 2,022, or it could be quarter one quarter 3, the annual, or just daily, on a very good good day for everyone.
Alex Kononov: So this is why I actually started to avoid using it. But I don't know, after all. I verified it was the same. So
I'm asking myself if they do the right thing or not.
Steph Wright: So it comes down to the purpose of what you're writing the code, for if
Steph Wright: I was designing a dashboard so that I could look at that number
Steph Wright: or that information every month or every quarter.
Steph Wright: then the table that I created would have had columns regarding sorry containing date
Steph Wright: or the quarter number something like that, so that I could then use it and manipulate it in my dashboard with a slicer.
Steph Wright: whereas because this was a one-off request, this is where we get to be lazy
Steph Wright: or efficient. it was just like all I need is this, bang in.
Steph Wright: off I go.
Steph Wright: And so it's thinking again, is someone else going to need to use the code? Is it going to be used for something where the data is continually getting
Steph Wright: bigger, or you're getting additional fields. In that case, hard coding stuff like that bad idea.
Steph Wright: Keep your columns
Steph Wright: and then do a where statement right at the very end. or filter it in power. Bi.
Steph Wright: if you had that reseller's ranked table, you actually didn't have to write any sequel.
Steph Wright: You just had to punt it in to power bi and stick a filter on it where the rank is less than 11.
Steph Wright: It's very easy to over-engineer
Steph Wright: things, because we think that the simple way can't possibly be true.
Steph Wright: Alex, you did the right thing. You said I got the same number
Steph Wright: bye. race.
Steph Wright: So that's checking it. If you've got the time like Jack did go through code it up
Steph Wright: and just sense, check it.
Steph Wright: or if you're in an office, and especially if you're in an office in person.
Steph Wright: go to the person you know is good at this stuff. I'll be like Pete. how's Borey for a sec?
Steph Wright: Get them to sense, check the value of the number if they've been in the company longer. If they've worked with the data more than you, they will have a rough idea of certainly the magnitude
Steph Wright: of things.
Steph Wright: So if you were to have calculated profit, and it had come out at like 700 billion
Steph Wright: for one person.
Steph Wright: I'd have probably gone
Steph Wright: Think we've probably used a cross join like Steph has done before, where we shouldn't.
Steph Wright: Let's just go and check with someone.
Steph Wright: Nothing wrong with doing that.
Steph Wright: If there's no one there to check with, it's called.
Steph Wright: Has anybody heard of rubber ducking.
Steph Wright: Hello.
Steph Wright: rubber ducking where you have an inanimate object, preferably a rubber duck, because who doesn't smile when they see their little yellow faces
Steph Wright: that you explain the problem to that you question.
Steph Wright: and it's in that process of chatting away. You get yourself to the answer because you go. No, wait a minute.
Steph Wright: There's there's no way. It's that high
Steph Wright: or
Steph Wright: 120%. No wait. This is definitely a hundred percent maximum type thing.
Steph Wright: So in the absence of another human. An animal will do a rubber duck.
Steph Wright: Any other thing you like to talk at, that you don't really respect. Expect a response to? Well.
Steph Wright: I am mixing up words left right and sent today. I do apologise.
Steph Wright: Yes, my dad
Alex Kononov: no. Just wanted to say that's after all. Even though I've checked. But I've checked the Uk side of the table. It was okay. But my U.S.A. part was absolutely sq, because for some reason the locations other than California did not load up. So I have top 10 in California. U.S.A.'s.
Alex Kononov: After all, the simplest way was the issue. I wanted someone to bring this up.
Steph Wright: So
Steph Wright: the other 2 locations I'm pretty sure one was Denver was the other one. New York.
Steph Wright: Okay. Is that in the Us. Or the U.S.A. So the Us. Or the Uk.
Steph Wright: Anyone.
Steph Wright: California? Where is it?
Is it?
Elymma Mensah: Thank you.
Steph Wright: In the Us.
Steph Wright: You could fill in those gaps. and then you would have been able to split by both region
Steph Wright: and sub region, and you you should get the same answer. So I would just go through. And because you know that the only gaps are US. States. The reason, you know that is, I'm telling you you don't need to go and check the data. It is only those 2 that are missing.
Steph Wright: You could fill it in going. If there's a gap punt in us.
Steph Wright: If it's more nuanced, you might need to use an if statement.
Steph Wright: If there's 2 options or a case select statement. those are the easiest ways of doing it, especially if it's information that, you know, like it has to be true.
Steph Wright: If California and its region is us.
Steph Wright: then the same must be true for other US. States. But when presenting this, what do we do?
Steph Wright: Free words?
Steph Wright: We've said these to you quite a lot
state our assumptions.
Steph Wright: We state our assumptions. So it's I've split this out by the US. And the UK. But just so you're aware.
Steph Wright: I had to fill in or backfill
Steph Wright: the the region fields
Steph Wright: because they were empty for Denver and New York. No one's going to question that right. That makes a hundred percent of sense.
Steph Wright: But if you don't tell them that.
Steph Wright: and then they find out that that's what you did.
Steph Wright: It incorrectly makes them assume that you did something a bit, squinty.
Steph Wright: because when things appear to have been hidden.
Steph Wright: People question them all. whereas if you shine a light on a problem
Steph Wright: or an assumption, everyone's like
Steph Wright: lovely, because they can then incorporate that. Yes, this is another cover you're asked.
Steph Wright: really, but I'm playing with the finer points again of like manipulating your audience. Remember, if you share what you've done.
Steph Wright: people don't question the details.
Steph Wright: so I get through life.
Steph Wright: It does look a little bit thin, like you're saying goodbye in a really kind of
Steph Wright: flamboyant fashion in the chat.
Steph Wright: I am at your disposal. Everyone it's kind of like. Ask me the things
Steph Wright: it it we're getting to the point now where, if it's about the the technical stuff. I will start fielding those questions because we seem to be.
Steph Wright: you know, slowing down, I'm losing more and more people off camera.
Steph Wright: I can see you all I know. Who's this at bed.
Steph Wright: Sherri Shiri. I was like, there's a really small people who are carrying you everyone
Steph Wright: bye.
Steph Wright: I may not be able to pick on you in this session because it's not a taught one. But don't think I won't next time.
Steph Wright:  And don't forget. Shall we?
Shiri: This might not be helpful to everyone. So I'm sorry, but my sequel isn't great, and I can't figure out
Shiri: the ranking resellers. Do you mind talking us through it?
Steph Wright: I can do. Let me just see if Alex has a different type of question and get that
Steph Wright: query open.
Steph Wright: And yeah, it's just a small remark about assumptions.
Alex Kononov: The thing is that's if it's were anything else but Denver, for example, for the U.S.A. I would feel absolutely safe. But the thing is that's there is Denver in Uk. So
GC Storino: I didn't know neither. I'm gonna be 100. There's also a London in the U.S.A. so
Alex Kononov: absolutely. And there are about 30 or 40 Saint Petersburgs there. So Pepper.
Steph Wright: the making assumptions can be dangerous. But at least, if you state it
Steph Wright: any conclusions that you make based on that
Steph Wright: right if it comes back to it. And they're like, How could you be so stupid? We clearly meant Denver in the UK. And you'd be like.
Steph Wright: okay, so remember that slide deck.
Steph Wright: Remember, I told you
Steph Wright: right that that was your moment
Steph Wright: to bring up
Steph Wright: that the numbers weren't quite right, because we could have gone away, I could have read other things. Please don't be this combative about it right. I am not at my best in terms of charming people today.
Steph Wright: but it's that's why we stay our assumptions. And that is why, preferably, those assumptions
Steph Wright: are in a slide deck somewhere, or in the report you sent out. They are written so essentially. If you send it out, people don't come back and go. No.
Steph Wright: This signed off.
Jc.
GC Storino: yeah, you could just do a quick check with the postal addresses, because the postal code will usually tell you the state and everything that's in  It's a bit. It's also a bit strange that you had California and New York, and then Denver.
GC Storino: like 2 State. Well.
GC Storino: if I'm with 2 cities and one state. It's a bit weird for categorization.
Steph Wright: You just weren't. Well, obviously, II took a subset
Steph Wright: of a dataset.
Steph Wright: We went with it.
Steph Wright: So that's probably why it's a bit. But again, these are the sorts of things that when you're digging through the data like you hopefully wouldn't have it. Under such time pressure you could go. You could ask the person who sent the request. You could ask the data owner. The person whose name comes up next to created by
Steph Wright: in bigquery and be like, I just wanna check what the logic was
Steph Wright: of having this information at different levels.
GC Storino: Fairness.
GC Storino: Yeah.
Steph Wright: Still to the bigquery.
Steph Wright: So what I'm going to need you do. I've tried to make it nice and big. I know I'm on a laptop screen, for which I apologize. Let me know the row number, or is it just the whole thing like, where is the problem coming up? So I make sure I'm talking about the right thing
Shiri: it was mainly the stuff under select that was confusing me. Yeah, from like 3 to 10.
Steph Wright: Okay.
Steph Wright: so we'll take some of the the easier ones
Steph Wright: hopefully.
Steph Wright: which would be
Steph Wright: these little ones.
Steph Wright: Yeah, in pink.
Steph Wright: And
Steph Wright: these here.
Steph Wright: all this is doing is going
Steph Wright: Sequo.
Steph Wright: The column I want is in the table.
Steph Wright: DE. Please pull building number from there
Steph Wright: and pop it in this column. The next one same table subregion line 7 postcode, and then total profit
Steph Wright: is from a different table. So that's why
Steph Wright: those bits
Steph Wright: are there, are we? Good? With that I just figured I'll
Steph Wright: start at the beginning. Right? Let's get rid of it.
Steph Wright: Okay, let's look at this one
Steph Wright: show. We have an if function in here.
Steph Wright: part of a concatenation. So all a concatenation does is pull together strings
Steph Wright: with a separator
Steph Wright: in that.
Steph Wright: So we've got. Please give me the first name
Steph Wright: with a space. and then the last name, and this is exactly
Steph Wright: as it is for
Steph Wright: pulling in things like total profit. It's just
Steph Wright: the table name.
Steph Wright: and the first name
Steph Wright: prefix
Steph Wright: all the prefixes is Mr. Mrs. Dr. Professor.
Steph Wright: but sometimes we don't hold that data and it in these tables.
Steph Wright: That data was represented by a null value. What we didn't want to do was make SQL. Fall over when trying to concatenate in
Steph Wright: the prefix with the first name and the second name.
Steph Wright: So we just go. Okay, let me get rid of my lines because we're getting messy now, hey? Working on our laptop screen. Stupid hit
Steph Wright: is going. Please go and have a look at the value of prefix.
Steph Wright: if it's null. replace it with nothing.
Steph Wright: so that there is no space, no null, anything like that sat in front of
Steph Wright: their first name when we're pulling their full name.
Steph Wright: put on the address label
Steph Wright: after you've done that, if function
Steph Wright: stick in first name, stick in the space stick in the last name.
Steph Wright: So this one, when you're building it up, you do not start with the overall concatenation.
Steph Wright: You think right. What it? What does my thing look like
Steph Wright: prefix
Steph Wright: birth, name, last name. How would that look if I just smudged it together?
Steph Wright: Wait! I need some spaces.
Steph Wright: and then you probably would have run that code
Steph Wright: and seen that there was a null value or gaps that were causing problems
Steph Wright: for the people that didn't have that prefix. And then you'd go back and fix it with the if function.
Steph Wright: because that is exactly what I did
Steph Wright: in order to get there. I couldn't write this starting at line one and going through tip, tapping this code.
Steph Wright: Not a chance.
It's
Steph Wright: this is where I started
Steph Wright: just getting that information.
Steph Wright: Then I moved on and did the bigger bits.
Steph Wright: everyone will write their code differently.
Steph Wright: Second. I probably should have started with this one because it's an easier example of an F function.
Steph Wright: All that's going is the same thing. If there isn't a region.
Steph Wright: put in U.S.A.
Steph Wright: Because I've gone through. I've looked at the data, and I'm like all the gaps should be U.S.A. easy. If not.
Steph Wright: give me the actual
Steph Wright: region that's in the table.
Steph Wright: And then, just to make sure that we don't get a weird like F one column name, because we're doing some sort of, you know. Cleverness.
Steph Wright: Just make sure you got that in there.
Steph Wright: Sometimes it makes difference. Sometimes it doesn't just pretty good practice.
Steph Wright: And then we get to the one that you were dreading right?
Steph Wright: Almost anticipating the window functions.
Steph Wright: I'm gonna be honest with you. These are doing exactly the same thing as each other. So what we're going to do is we're just going to get rid of
Steph Wright: this one with the world's straightest line
Steph Wright: check. Well, we've got a window function. The first thing we see
Steph Wright: is the actual function, the clever thing that we want SQL. To do.
Steph Wright: We want it to rank.
Steph Wright: Some of the people are salespeople, buy a certain thing.
Steph Wright: and so what I did when I wrote this out. No word of a lie is, I went rank
Steph Wright: over, and then I googled
Steph Wright: and over to make sure I got the next bits in the correct order, which was partitioned by, and then I put a space
Steph Wright: order by, and then I put a space.
Steph Wright: and then I close my brackets. because
Steph Wright: as soon as you think about it in English, you know where to fill the gaps.
Steph Wright: So I want to split my data by subregion.
Steph Wright: That is what we partition by.
Steph Wright: and if the gap is already there.
Steph Wright: After copying and pasting what this template
Steph Wright: of a window function looks like. You know exactly what to pop in. And then it's okay. What am I ranking them by
Steph Wright: their total profit?
Steph Wright: How do I calculate? Total profit in SQL.
Steph Wright: I do a sum profit
Steph Wright: fill in the gap.
Steph Wright: and then it's do I want the top
Steph Wright: number of these, or do I want the bottom?
Steph Wright: If we're looking at the best.
Steph Wright: and we're talking about profit. then we tell it. Please arrange my numbers, starting with the biggest and going down to the smallest.
Steph Wright: which is what allows you to do the less than 11 filter
Steph Wright: in power Bi.
Steph Wright: And need you to tell me, Teri, is that a bit clearer, is it not?
Shiri: No, that makes a lot of sense. But now I have a new question.
Shiri: Okay, hit me. No one else is put the hand up. So you have the floor. Do you have to do it as less than 11, cause I think I did it by
Shiri: self string by top end. And then just 10. Yep, that's fine. Okay, cool.
Steph Wright: That's using one of power. Bi. It's lovely in built
Steph Wright: features to do that.
Steph Wright: The the reason I like a filter buy with the inequality is, it means that if I want to start getting more specific in how I'm cutting things down. It's very easy for me to go in shift stuff about
Steph Wright: and do it.
Steph Wright: but it's it's totally your call. How you approach it. As long as you were getting out
Steph Wright: 10 people.
Steph Wright: you could also do this with row number. By the way.
Steph Wright: row number stops any duplications of number.
Steph Wright: I mean, you've got 6 min. I can let you go. You can ask me another question. We can check in and see if you hate me more or less
Steph Wright: at the end of this session. Who knows Jack
Jack C: like a whippet
Jack C: on on that query you just shout in
Jack C: is it? I know you said 2 links is the other one where you you did it by the quarter. Where's the I can't see the
Jack C: water to 2021. Was that like a second?
Jack C: 2 s? Yeah. So ranking resellers
Jack C: this one here with the window functions in. That's the one that to get the final table.
Jack C: But it's using
Steph Wright: this query here.
Steph Wright: pulling together the data.
Jack C: Oh, access tonight. Why is my access denied?
Shouldn't be.
Jack C: Let me have a look at that.
Jack C: This is the one.
Jack C: and it's just where you've got your
Jack C: in a join to that
Jack C: fiscal's quarter table, because if you
Jack C: then stick in your where?
Jack C: What is that error? Sorry. annoying me now
the rank in resellers calls from this query, pulling together the data.
Jack C: Yes.
Jack C: So if we go into more
Jack C: query settings.
give it a second.
Jack C: If this was actually allowing me to do the thing.
Steph Wright: I set the destination table. Picked the dataset
Steph Wright: that it was in. If you start
Steph Wright: typing it out. pick that one.
Steph Wright: And then I typed in Reseller's ranked, or whatever I called the table
Steph Wright: click, save. And then when I ran that query. It created the table
Steph Wright: where it was pre-filtered
Jack C: and query, I'm gonna have to dig into that and find out what's going. Cause this worked like it clearly produced to the table because it was there for you. It is the query that did the job.
Steph Wright: not the tidied up. One
Steph Wright: same.
Steph Wright: I am seeing a lot of glazed eyes, crazy eyes. some faces, and some fidgeting like
Steph Wright: I think it's time for you guys to go have a stretch, maybe caffeinate. Get some sugar in you ahead of Team Trivia.
Steph Wright: Oh, yes. I've not forgotten.
Steph Wright: So unless you have any other questions, I'm going to bid you at you. Thank you very much for engaging this with me. This has probably been one of the most spirited
Steph Wright: discussions I've had that didn't come from you hating me as a group. so I'd say it's one of the more positive ones from my point of view. So thanks
Steph Wright: bye.
Florine: thank you. Aye.
Elymma Mensah: thank you. Bye.